feat(docs/guides) Added NextJS guide (#838)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: docs/guides/getting-started/setup/nextjs.mdx

---
description: Build a Tauri app using NextJS as the frontend build tool
pagination_next: guides/architecture/README
sidebar_custom_props:
  doc_card_image: /img/guides/getting-started/setup/vite.svg
---

import TauriInit from './_fragments/_tauri-init.mdx'
import Commands from './_fragments/_commands.mdx'
import Intro from './_fragments/_intro.mdx'
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import Command from '@theme/Command'

# NextJS

> This guide will walk you through creating your first Tauri app using the React framework [nextjs].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through creating your first Tauri app using the React framework [NextJS].
```

<Intro />

Here's a preview of what we will be building:

![Application Preview](./next-light.png#gh-light-mode-only)
![Application Preview](./next-dark.png#gh-dark-mode-only)

## Create the Frontend

> [NextJS] is a React Framework that came with both `SSR` and `SSG` capability, to make it work with tauri we are only going to use SSG mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NextJS] is a React Framework that comes with both Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Server-Side Generation (SSG) capabilities. To make NextJS work with Tauri we are going to use the SSG mode since it generates only static files that can be included in the final binary.
```

Maybe you can also explain in a short paragraph why SSG is great for app UX (fast initial rendering, fast navigation etc.) but also explain the downside of using NextJS in SSG mode (no serverless functions etc.)

> It comes with a scaffolding utility similar to create-tauri-app that can quickly setup a new project from a number of pre-defined templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It comes with a scaffolding utility similar to `create-tauri-app` that can quickly setup a new project from a number of pre-defined templates.
```

For this guide we will use the typescript template to create a simple project.

<Tabs groupId="package-manager">
  <TabItem value="npm" label="npm" default>

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest --use-npm --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">

```shell
yarn create next-app --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm">

```shell
pnpm create next-app --use-pnpm --typescript
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

1. **Project name**  
   This will be the name of your JavaScript project. Corresponds to the name of the folder this utility will create but has otherwise no effect on your app. You can use any name you want here.

> When starting the frontend via the `next-app` command, Next will look for a config file named `next.config.js` inside the project root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When starting the frontend via the `next-app` command, NextJS will look for a config file named `next.config.js` inside the project root.
```

We want to customize this file to get the best compatibility with Tauri.

Update the file with the following content: 

```typescript title=next.config.js
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */

const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  swcMinify: true,
  // Note: This experimental feature is required to use NextJS Image in SSG mode.
  // You can see other workaround https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/export-image-api
  experimental: {
    images: {
      unoptimized: true,
    },
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig;
```

To be able to build in production we must add `next export` command in `package.json`.

> This will render a pure Html/JavaScript version of your [NextJS] application and create the `out` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will produce a static HTML/JavaScript version of your NextJS application in the `out` folder.
```

<Tabs groupId="package-manager">
  <TabItem value="npm" label="npm" default>

```shell
npm install @tauri-apps/api
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">

```shell
yarn add @tauri-apps/api
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm">

```shell
pnpm add @tauri-apps/api
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

With the library installed, you can modify your `pages/index.ts` file to call the Command:

```typescript title=pages/index.tsx
import { invoke } from "@tauri-apps/api/tauri"

// Note: When working with NextJS in development you have 2 execution contexts:
// - In server side where Tauri cannot be called because it's out of the context.
// - In client side where Tauri can be executed.
// To know if we are in server or client side we can do the following:
const isClient = typeof window !== 'undefined'

// now we can call our Command!
// Right-click on the application background and open the developer tools.
// You will see "Hello, World!" printed in the console!
isClient && invoke('greet', { name: 'World' })
    .then(console.log)
    .catch(console.error)
```

> A better approche will be to use tauri calls in `componentDidMount` or `useEffect` that are only run in client side by [NextJS]

Reviewer: Why not show that better approach right here in the snippet?
